Here's my point of view and module summary.
"Rolls" versus roles, potato, potato.
Many companies have different roles or titles for what we've been talking about.
For example,
the product manager is usually less operational in her
activities and more business and forward thinking,
such as defining a product and how best to sell it and
have it be successful in the marketplace.
This is a very common role in business,
so you may be partnering with the product manager.
Now a product manager could have multiple product owners given a
very broad‑based product and may even be called a program manager
like we discussed previously as well.
Now you remember our agile role of product owner of course.
That role we are familiar with and is, in fact,
more operational, defining the backlog, setting priorities,
working out releases and iterations.
And it may be said that this role is a subset of an
overall product manager role.
Certainly business analysts, or some form or permutation of analyst,
like technical business analyst, or a financial business analyst.
Based on the size of the company, you may have all these roles,
some of these roles, or a whole new batch of roles or monikers.
The point of this slide is that if you're looking for a new job
within your company or outside your company,
be aware that your perfect job may be titled different than you may think.
Here's my point of view, my thoughts, and opinions.
Themes can go by several names, strategies, initiatives, to name a few.
Now user stories are well defined and understood in industry
today and are commonly understood by everyone.
But themes and epics have a lot of wiggle room and
different points of view and interpretations,
which is just fine to me.
Just adapt and move forward.
Here are the key points in summary of this module.
In this module, we looked at gathering enterprise‑wide requirements,
also known as portfolio themes.
Portfolio themes are strategic business initiatives.
These are very high level and visionary.
What is also important, themes are strategic and propel a company forward.
It is the vision of the company that themes represent.
Themes come from the most senior leadership of the company or
board of directors or even outside consultants.
Portfolio themes drive the creation of epics and implement the theme.
Portfolio backlogs are the collection of epics and not the themes themselves.
Portfolio management is the people and processes that manage the
creation and implementation of the themes and epics.
Themes are not just business oriented,
but also architecture and technology themes are
critical to the success of any company.
And both business and architectural themes drive epics.
From themes, BAs help with epic identification and creating epic backlogs.
Epics get prioritized based on a template or model and then assigned to the
appropriate organization or program to get implemented.
The activities in this model that we discussed may be worked on by BAs,
program managers, product managers, line‑of‑business managers,
project managers, or a cross‑section of all of them.
If you like or think you like this kind of work, don't worry about the title.
Just jump in and get involved.
Up next: Applying Key Learning Objectives. I'll see you there.